## Rejected code branch
Originally, this branch was going to implement a new rendering system called the Dynamic Texture Atlas in which it stores every image into one texture to prevent texture swapping and hence save performance, while also avoiding the annoying lag issue in large PImages. However, several major disadvantages arised while developing it:
- Severely complicates code
- Added over 1000 lines that had to be maintained
- Rendered PImage obselete (no pun intended)
- Made it difficult to use regular functions like rect() etc.
- Consumes a massive amount of memory
- Complicates other things (some files needed to be named with the extension repeat.png large.png pad.png to avoid artefacts)
- Takes way too long to implement


And, to top it all off, there were no performance benefits with this new system in place that I could notice.
Kinda sucks, because I came so far with this code. But I think it's better to cut our losses than to continue with this... unfortunate mess.

# Timeway

**Explore** your filesystem in a nostalgic retro 3D world.
**Personalise** your worlds and your experience. The only limit is your creativity. (~~And other things but hey this is a WIP~~)
**Take notes** and **create entries** within your worlds. Whether for creativity or for personal use, Timeway provides an interface similar to Onenote, where you can access your notes directly in your worlds.

*This project is currently WIP. I have loads of planned features to add! Timeway needs time!*

## Quick start
Download from the [releases page](https://github.com/TeoJT/timeway/releases/) and run the executable. If running on Linux or MacOS, you'll need to ensure Java 8 is installed. *Please note Linux and MacOS is not properly supported yet.*

## How to use
In the Pixel Realm:
- Use `wasd` to move.
- Use `q+e` to look left and right
- Use `r` to run faster.
- `space` to jump
- Press `tab` to open the menu.
- Use `o` to open files
- Use `o+p` to pick up/put down objects with the grabber selected.
- Use `+` and `-` (without pressing `shift`) to grow/shrink images that you're currently holding with the grabber tool.
- Folders are represented as portals in your system. Walk into a portal to enter that folder in your system.
Keybindings can be edited in `data/keybindings.json`

In the entry editor:
- Click+drag to reposition text and images.
- Ctrl+v to paste images.
- Drag the bottom-right corner of images to resize them.

**IMPORTANT**: Files are not saved automatically yet, so make sure to click the back button to save entries.

## How to use the cool stuff 😎
You can customise how your worlds look and feel. Create the following files in your folder to modify your world:
- `.pixelrealm-sky.png` to customise the sky. Recommended dimensions 1500x200.
- `.pixelrealm-grass.png` to customise the ground. This uses repeated tiling. Recommended resolution 64x64 or less.
- `.pixelrealm-terrain_object-1` to customise the terrain objects (like trees). You can create multiple terrain_objects (e.g. `.pixelrealm-terrain_object-2`, `.pixelrealm-terrain_object-3` etc) to randomly select variants of terrain objects. Recommended resolution 48x48 or less.
- `.pixelrealm-bgm.mp3` to customise the background music/ambience sound you hear while in the realm. Not just limited to mp3, you can use .ogg, .flac, and .wav files too!

Additionally, you can also customise `.pixelrealm-turf.json` that is automatically generated by Timeway when you enter the realm:
- `render_distance` - how many tiles ahead of the player is rendered.
- `hill_frequency` - how hilly the terrain is. Higher values = more hilly.
- `ground_size` - how big each tile is. Modifying affects `render_distance` and `hill_frequency` as a side effect.
- `hill_height` - how high each hill is. Set to 0 for flat terrain.

Don't touch these (they're used by Timeway and aren't intended to be user-modified):
- `objects3d`
- `compatibility_version`

Press backspace to go to a more standard file explorer. Press "world view" to go back to the Pixel Realm.

## Extra options
Timeway's config file is located in data/config.json. These are the following configurations:

`repressDevMode : true/false` - Disables dev mode even if being edited by the Processing IDE.

`fullscreen : true/false` - Toggles fullscreen mode upon startup.

`forceDevMode : true/false` - Enables dev mode even if using an exported version.

`scrollSensitivity : float` - The trackpad/mousewheel scroll sensitivity in the explorer.

`dynamicFramerate : true/false` - Timeway reduces the framerate while doing non-resource intensive stuff like typing. Set to false to disable this feature.

`lowBatteryPercent : float 0.0-100.0` - (NOT FUNCTIONAL YET) The framerate is reduced when the device's battery percentage is lower than this value. Devices without a battery or that are plugged in are not affected.

`autoScaleDown : true/false` - In the editor, pasted images are shrunk to 512 pixels width/height to save space and performance. Set to false to allow native resolution of pasted images.

`defaultSystemFont : string` - The font used by Timeway without the file extension. Available fonts are in `data/engine/fonts`. Add your own if you'd like :)

`homeDirectory : string` - The default starting directory in the Pixel Realm.

`forcePowerMode : string "HIGH"/"NORMAL"/"SLEEPY"/"NONE"` - effectively force sets the framerate, `HIGH` = 60fps, `NORMAL` = 30fps, `SLEEPY` = 15fps. Set to `NONE` to automatically determine the framerate based on CPU resources.

`volumeNormal : float 0.0-1.0` - The volume of the background music when window is focussed.

`volumeQuiet : float 0.0-1.0` - The volume of the background music when window is unfocussed. Set to 0 to stop music playing while not using Timeway.

`fasterImageImport : true/false` - Experimental feature, don't use it yet, it'll just crash Timeway.

## Updates
As of 0.0.4, Timeway should automatically look for updates and prompt you when one is available.
Follow [my blog](https://teojt.github.io/blog) for updates and roadmaps for the project.
More documentation will (maybe) be released soon.

## Quick todo summary:
- General code cleanup, and split code in Engine and PixelRealm into sub-classes.
- Graphical optimisation of the Pixel Realm.
- Add 3D displayable objects (like OBJ files).
- Add animated GIF's and videos playback in realtime in the Pixel Realm.
- Add extra GUI's for making customisation of realms less painful.
- Make moving and creating files safer (VERY IMPORTANT).
- Test and add support for Linux and MacOS.
